							----------------
							     GIT :
							----------------

		GIT is a distributed Version Control System.

Basics :

Version Control System:  It allows multiple people work on a project efficiently by keeping a track of changes time-wise,
			  And by sorting these Versions systematically

GIT : It is a Distributed Version Control Tool that supports non-linear work flow and allows to create local repositary at local Machine.
	Interacts with Global Repository(GIT Hub)using Commands.

GIT feauers :	
		1. Non - Linear (Devs can work parallel)
		2. Allows branching which allows parallel developement.
		3. It is free(Open Source).
		4. Compatible with lot of languages & O.S
		5. Very lite. Doesn't occupy lot of local system resources.
		6. GIT is quicker when compared with other VCSs (Speed).
		7. Encrypts all the source code stored in the GIT repository(Secured)


Creating a GIT Repo : Creating a Central(Remote) Repository..........

		1. Navigate to www.github.com
		2. SignUp with a new account. 
		3. Create a New repository by clicking 'new' button and giving the repo name and details.
		4. After succesful creation of Central Repo, You will see a 'clone or download' Green button
		5. In this dropdown button we will have our Central Repo URL which is used to link local project.

Creating GIT Local Repository : 

		1. Navigate to www.git-scm.com
		2. Download .exe and install (use 'where git'(in windows) / 'which git'(in mac) command in cmd propt to check wethere git is installed or not)
		3. Opend Cmd prompt and navigate to your project directory
	       *4. type 'git init' to initialize local repository for the project
		5. you will see 'Initialised git empty repository' for your project path.
		6. With this a .git folder will be created in your project folder which will be hidden.
		7. You can navigate to .git folder in cmd by ' cd .git' and use 'dir' to see the folder structure.
		8. All the files in .git folder are necessary. Do not delete any of these files.
		
Link the Created Local Repo with Remote/Central repo which was created a GitHub :

		1. Navigate to root directory(project folder) of your poject in cmd
		2. Use 'git remote add origin "https://xxx/xxx/xxx.git"' command 
		3. You have to use the URL link for above step from Creating a GIT repos 5th Step.
		4. If the command run succesfully we see nothing in the cmd prompt. That means local repo got linked to global repo
		5. Use 'git status' command to see the local repo status w.r.t global repo

To Sync Local repo with Central/Remote Repo:

		1. Use 'git pull origin master' 
		2. use 'git staus' to check the status.

Adding Code(files/documents) to local Repo and Pushing the changes to Remote Repo:
		
		1. Use 'git status', If you see ant untracked files in your local you are able to push your changes to Remote repo
		2. Use 'git add XXXXX.txt/py/java/any file name'
		3. We should add the file available in project folder that we are willing to push in the above command 
		4.  If the command run succesfully we see nothing in the cmd prompt.
		5. Use 'git status' to check the fie status that we added just now. We will see that changes need to be committed are the file that we added
		6. The file is not yet stored in remote repo. To do that we have to do the following step.
		7. Use 'git commit -m "use your appropriate commments while committing any code"
		8. Check the 'git status' now. You will see nothing to commit statement
		9. If you go back to your www.github.com remote repo and refresh page you can't see you chages affected to your central repo.
		10. To see your local changes commiited in your central repo you need to push your changes to remote repo

Pushing the Local changes to Remote Repo:
	
		1. Use 'git push origin master' to push your local changes to remote
		2. If promted you need to give your github credentials here
		3. Now if you see your remote repo you will find your changes there.

Cloning/Copying an Existing Project :

		1. Create a Folder where you want to Clone/Copy your project
		2. Open cmd prompt and navigate to the clone location
		3. Use 'git clone "https://xxx/xxx/xxx.git"' 
		4. Now we can use this clone repo to make changes and adding committing and pushing to master.
Branching :
		1. Navigate to 'http:\\www.github.com', In the Central Repo we see an option Branch:master drop odwn
		2. Click the Branch:master dropdown button and create a new branch 'xxxxx'.
		3. Now we have created a copy of master branch.
	
		Checkout Command :
		
		a. Check the status from your current root directory of project you find you are in master.
		b. If we want to switch to a branch use command 'git checkout -b "BranchName"'
		c. Check git status here you find you are not in master rather you are in Brance

	
GIT Commands :
		1. 'git log' -> To see all the commits log of your current repo.
		2.

